they say that coding is possibly the
most important subject that every child
should be taught in modern times and
it's primarily because if you learn
coding if you learn software development
you'll probably be financially
safeguarded for the rest of your life
because every single business in the
world every single company is gradually
becoming a software company but it's not
just from a money standpoint coding is
one of those subjects that really opens
up your own head and trust me I'm one of
those people who hated coding in
engineering College in junior college
but what I figured over time is that
it's just like mathematics the more you
practice it the better you get at coding
this is anuman sing's story from working
with Mark Zuckerberg's inner team at
Facebook to creating scaler I hope that
this podcast will not only inspire you
and give you a little Inlet into his
story but it'll also give you a little
Inlet into the world of software
development and coding so whether you're
into coding or not not you will gain
value from this particular podcast
remember follow the renov show on
Spotify for informative conversations
just like this every episode is
available on Spotify 48 hours before
it's available anywhere else in the
world because we're a Spotify exclusive
now this is anuman Singh of Scala on the
renv show
[Music]
Mr anjuan sing you know I want to begin
this particular Episode by just talking
about money I've been getting deep into
Neuroscience lately and there's biology
behind why manifestation creating
something in your head before it happens
in your real life is an actual
biological phenomena there's a part of
your brain which is right at the front
where sort of visualizations and
manifestations take place and then the
logical part of your brain the rest of
your brain slowly takes over and gets
you to there speaking specifically about
making money before you've made money I
feel it's a two-part process first
having that uh chahat you know that wish
in your heart that okay I want to make
money and second getting the knowhow
about how can I possibly make more money
now you're an engineering grad just like
I am there's lots of engineering grads
watching this uh talk about yourself
andan Singh what do you
do yeah so I just like you I'm an
engineering grad I graduate in
2010 um started my career with
Facebook maybe we can go more over that
Journey later on um but I led the team
that built Facebook Messenger so if
you've used that you probably are
running some of my code crazy man you've
worked with Mark zberg yourself yeah
yeah okay this is a whole tangent for
the podcast yeah actually the first day
I went to um went for my job and in the
office my desk was right opposite Mark
zerbs wow so so he stood up he came to
my desk and he's like hi I'm Mark I said
I know wow what's his energy
like uh he's a little shy socially he's
a little shy I think he's he worked a
lot on his social skills um but it
doesn't talk a
lot you know dude that's a lot of the
coders even we work with on some of our
products uh they always sort of drawing
out patterns in their head I think
that's what they get lost in that
happens to some of our editors as well
like they do the same thing with edits
but coding specifically is one of those
skills that so many people our age are
like kind of afraid of because we didn't
learn it back in college not even an
engineering College you know I had
basics of coding and I I kind of like
this not my cup of tea and somewhere
that is a sort of regret even anur varu
is and other YouTuber he also says the
same thing he says that oh that's my
regret in life that I haven't learned
how to code how difficult is coding
really not really difficult and actually
to be honest if you learn it the right
way it is very interesting it it's
almost like um playing a game M um and
then like to be honest with two major
things in our lives we've never been
taught it the right way one is
Mathematics Two is coding uh both are
extremely extremely interesting if you
really really do it the right way so in
pop culture if you see like there are
movies like 21 which are pure
mathematics and they're extremely
popular movies um but yet we are all
afraid of mathematics yeah I I know a
story of this uh person one of my best
friends from college uh his name was a
suani uh he came from a very very small
village in Rajasthan not from a very um
Rich background I had to struggle
financially did not go even go to school
till class 8th was uh
homeschooled and um in 11th and 12th he
actually had to go to various people to
ask for donations for to buy his books
um so when I went to college on my first
day he was my senior so he was he had
already been in the college for a year
and uh he told me that he had never seen
a computer before coming to Triple
Hyderabad and he had chosen computer
science because everybody else was also
choosing computer science and uh within
a year he was the not only the best
coder in college but in certain sense
best coder in India all of the
programming competitions that would
happen he would just go and win it so if
you see in a year just because the
person had the right aptitude and the
interest they became the best scoder in
India for that to happen I mean it can't
be it can't be that hard right also I
want to highlight that for the
non-engineers listening in or watching
this episode you don't have to go
through engineering College to learn
coding absolutely you just have to have
that interest in it right I'll I'll tell
you another story so
um there's this large company called
gojek uh that just merged with tokopedia
is in fact like just to give you some
idea um majority of GDP of Indonesia is
driven by gojek it is so big super app
it's a super app it is a super app right
so the CTO of that company is aay Gore
um and he is not an engineering student
he is a finance grad and he just liked
coding and he learned coding when we did
not have this amount of online content
he learned coding in from libraries and
like today he's the CD of gojek that's a
you know uh while we talking about
coding and I have so many more questions
about it also just for the Practical
sake and for the L sake I want to ask
you specifically with what you guys do
at Scala first could you highlight
probably some of the highest packages
that you guys have been able to create
for your clients clients if I may or
students right uh and second what are
the money prospects of someone who knows
coding that intensely right so on a very
high level there is a there is a shift
of Silicon Valley happening to
India um if you see the macro
almost everything is being now driven by
software
engineering I I'll ask you a question R
if if you can answer um which company
which car company do you think is the
most valuable car company today now
Tesla oh yeah that answer is correct
that answer is correct um but just to
maybe put that in perspective um the
first car was built in 1886 M the first
car that came into production was by
Ford Ford even exists today
uh that was sometime in
1910s so it's been almost 120 years 110
years since
then and the most valuable company today
is less than 15 years old which is Tesla
and what is so different about Tesla why
is it more valuable than Toyota or a or
a Honda or or a Mercedes or a
BMW and the only difference is that
Tesla was the first company to truly
marry software engineering to the
automobile industry M and that is
happening in every single
industry I mean there's a term which for
this which is called Industrial
Revolution
3.0 and and just to maybe highlight the
difference of like what the difference
of supply and demand does the average
salary of a engineer designing
self-driving cars in Silicon Valley is
$10 million wow so again it's not about
the money it's essentially what you can
do and what how much value does Society
put on that and also and also I feel $10
million people hear it be like oh I'll
never be there but that's also not true
man absolutely it begins it begins in
that part of your brain that visualizes
first that okay I might be able to do it
let's learn let's let's get into action
correct go on and and by the way this is
again not saying that money is the only
thing as I said like it is it is
reflection of what value does Society
put on your skills we've seen this
happens at Skiller as well like now we
have more than five people who are
earning more than one one CR salaries in
India not internationally in India
who've gone through the Scala program
who' gone through the Scala program and
one of them only has 5 years of
experience in fact there are companies
today that are trying everything they
can to just attract Talent their
companies giving BMW bikes Dubai trip um
and I won't be surprised like maybe some
days you'll have companies giving you
apartments and cars to actually go and
go and join the companies because I mean
today
software Engineers are the tech backbone
on which a lot of unicorns of todays are
built um so just to sumarize Silicon
Valley is Shifting to India what that
would mean is that there's going to be a
large Surge and demand for Quality
software Engineers being able to code is
not enough but being able to code
world-class software is is what is
required and if for people who lie in
that there I mean you said
lch just because of the supply and
demand Gap there is a there is a fairly
fulfilling career to be built in Tech
yeah I'm sure man um you know some
people just have a natural flare for
code and so many of them don't know that
they have a natural flare for code at
least try it that's that's my uh input
as an engineering student I didn't like
my head just didn't like some people
don't like it I couldn't wrap my head
around code I tried a lot I I genuinely
tried with my heart and you're not alone
by the way yeah India has this massive
problem where like look at in India
everybody has to become an engineer or a
doctor um that's what our society tells
us and even within that I mean doctors
are are a small portion Engineers are
the majority portion um in India just by
going by numbers there are 1.6 million
people 16 lakh people that enroll in
engineering every year and to be honest
we have so few colleges that you can
actually call as quality colleges yeah
uh there's a I
mean university has been made into a
business now where you have a lot of
tier 2 tier three colleges that do that
hardly do justice to education and
education is a lot
about being able to get you to be
curious to be able to get you to play
with with with stuff right like we
enforce it and we make it so
uninteresting and and that's kills
curiosity that kills interest um that's
been what what's been happening with
with almost all of our uh graduate
population a lot of people don't like
coding I mean you're not alone a lot of
people don't like coding and I I to be
honest fault universities for that our
infrastructure is not designed to to
produce good Engineers you mean the
coaching capabilities of the teachers it
is a combination of a lot of things it
is coaching capability of teachers it is
the environment that is being created
around them it is what you really really
reward among students what is considered
good versus what is considered mediocre
um all of that comes together dude I'll
give you the sort of bad perspective on
what you said it's an extension of what
you said but I remember like it wasn't
just me it was a bunch of us in
engineering college and I'm dead sure
this happens in all engineering colleges
across the country you either know how
to code and then that subject becomes
easy for you you know you have basics of
computers in your first year every
department has this right so I was in
electronics and Telecom and I chose an
extc because I didn't want to get into
coding uh but we had that first year
subject so the kids who understood
coding could answer those JavaScript
questions easily the C++ questions
easily everyone who didn't aim to mug up
like the theory in the subject so that
we could get away with those 20 marks 25
marks and for those 10 to 15 marks that
were remaining for us to just pass get
40 out of 100 which are the passing
marks we used to mug up the entire code
that okay there's this much space
between the brackets these are the words
that you put like a poem so relatable um
one of the reasons why I moved back was
also because my brother was exactly this
I I found him one day mugging up the
code to find out palindrome because this
was supposed to come in the exams yeah
so instead of understanding how to write
code he was just memorizing the code
yeah yeah that's what's broken you can't
expect somebody to just memorize a
mathematical question and then no
mathematics yeah yeah you see that also
you know you see so many kids memorizing
mathematical problems D exactly sad man
um the other thing I really want to ask
you is Silicon Valley I really I think
it's firstly it's inspirational honestly
that you spend time that you work will
be at Facebook and then something just
happened in you you had your shuk Khan
from swes moment
saying and came back here and did this
but what you're doing here is um it's
really cool in terms of I I don't know
how you were able to spot at Silicon
Valley shifting you I admire that but I
actually want to ask you a little bit
about Silicon Valley what are the coders
like there what other growth prospects
there also we'll kind of head into a
conversation about the future of the
human race which is always going to be
developed at Silicon Valley first and
foremost but what's what's that reality
like like what's it like being a coder
in terms of money in terms of life in
terms of job right right I I think um
Silicon Valley a lot of people probably
already know this but is um you talked
about again money um MoneyWise is it's
probably one of the highest paid regions
in the world um highest rewarding
highest paid if you're an engineer in
the Silicon Valley then you're you're
already making topnotch Dollar in your
life while that's not the most important
thing it's it's it's something that
drives a lot of us the other is like the
culture of Silicon Valley because of the
way it has evolved is very accepting of
failures so if you people actually
really really respect you if you take
risks and if you try out something new
even if you fail that's fine unlike in
our society where failure is sort of
looked down upon people don't like
talking about failures people hesitate
from talking about failures that's one
region where where I believe Silicon
Valley has done really well is in
pushing people to make mistakes and and
Truth is like if you're at solving a
problem for a long enough time you end
up doing well at that because you would
have made a lot of mistakes you would
have learned from it you yourself have
been running this channel for a while
I'm sure you made a lot of mistakes in
the beginning but just because you've
been at it for a long enough time now
you're one of the Front Runners of of
content like in India in in the world
probably to to a certain extent um I I
feel I learned it from watching American
TV shows you pick you pick certain
things up from American culture AB that
just toughens you up but anyway go on
but but like if you see the reason why
you did it is because you wanted to
experiment you were not afraid of
failing um that's the that's a culture
cultural thing that's been created in
the Silicon Valley to a certain extent
and and I feel I was very fortunate to
get there to be honest
um never thought that I would end up in
in the silon valley like especially most
people wouldn't get hired then from
Indian colleges into into the sil that's
a very what the [__] kind of moment you
know because I've seen guys in
engineering College they will dedicate
the life to that gr cracking it
applications paying for those career
counseling and here you're sitting in a
good engineering College in India and
just I'm I'm assuming it's out of your
natural love for code and your skill
with it that you sat your did your thing
and you got recruited by Facebook abroad
it's crazy yeah I actually so it goes
from the same incident right I talk to
that I talked to this guy aani who had
never seen a computer became the best
coder in IND what's he doing now that
guy he is right now leading uh the news
feed team for Instagram
so did he get recruited with you yeah
yeah joined Facebook at the same time
wow okay uh so so I mean because I found
him and this is like actually peers are
so important uh because I found him I I
started to actually focus a lot more on
on learning coding outside of college um
just got very experimental with it uh we
used to compete in a lot of competitions
we got really good at it after a while
um we both got to represent India twice
in this Olympics of coding which is
called as ICPC uh in the World Finals
and we got recruited from there actually
okay so we met a few recruiters from
Google and Facebook um I had offers from
both Google and Facebook uh Google again
in the Silicon Valley and Facebook again
in the Silicon Valley and my parents did
not want me to join Facebook by the way
they they were they felt that Google is
the safer option it's just such a big
company uh this was in the time when
orot had gone down orot had disappeared
so um my parents felt that Facebook is a
very risky option but then um I just
talked to a lot of people and I felt
like uh Facebook is in this place where
you'll just get to do cooler things
you'll get to own a lot of things and
hence made the call to join Facebook as
the first job a joined with me dude [__]
what were you feeling when you flew to
the US I'm sure you there was a part of
you that was happy but there has to be a
part of you that had some sort of
cultural shock yeah I mean so I told you
like we were we used to participate in
competitions so on both occasions where
we had to represent India we had to go
outside of India so the first time was
to Stockholm and the second time was to
China both both like Po polarizing
different right um so my first cultural
shock was when I went to Stockholm um I
remember that they were they were
serving dinner and they had these um
pork sausages which were almost shiny
and both of us mistook it to be gulab
jamun nice I like it and then then then
we had that and then we realized oh
[__] what are the coders like there
because you know the coders um in Indian
engineering colleges either they are the
rataro coders like me uh or they are
like you which is a very rare case
honestly I don't know what the scene is
now because it's been 10 years since I
started my engineering uh but most of
the coders like I'd probably say 80 to
90% of the kids are probably good enough
to understand code uh probably inclined
towards code but they they're looking
for like a safe job at TCS infosis um mu
Sigma Cap Gemini these kind of companies
right so uh and and you know this is
everyone I don't know if you remember
this but in your third or fourth year of
engineering College you kind of get
possessed into this whole placement
placement placement placement placement
Vibe and your friends are like telling
you oh what's your package what are you
aiming for oh there's this company the
whole College kind of goes crazy in that
third fourth year Zone uh do you think
that's changing
do you think that kids are now starting
to realize okay there's a Scala out
there oh okay there's a bigger uh
Prospect for my career um I My Hope Is
that they do my hope is that all the
engineering students in the country find
this podcast please share this podcast
engineering students if you guys are
watching this put it on your class
groups Etc because that's what I feel
students need man they need to be aware
that all these options are out there but
is it an accurate General scenario that
I've painted or is it different
according to you it is very accurate
placement season is one of the most
stressful times in anybody's career yeah
um I know of people who have cried for
days because every single day companies
would come they would not get hired they
would just feel that they are being left
behind uh behind everybody else um and
then that's just a very lonely and and
stressful time for for everybody in
their careers and and like it's a
horrible time to be but to be honest
like one thing which I've also learned
is that look at the end of the time the
best job guarantee is what you can do
skills skills is the is the best job
guarantee I mean as long as you're
skilled some there's always going to be
somebody out there who would want to
want to hire you I also just want to
highlight one quick thing before I let
you continue um often what happens in
third or fourth especially in
engineering college but I'm assuming all
colleges in the country you're given a
very wrong picture of the outside world
Often by your professors Often by your
peers right often like I remember man I
I decided to sit only for one uh job
interview in placement season and that
was also one of the early ones where I
felt like huh maybe let me just try it I
got rejected after they scanned my
social media I don't know whether it was
because I was active on social media or
what but you were to actually fill in
your social media uh to give them access
to your Facebook and all they scan it
and i' given an IQ test which I'm sure I
ased because I used to be good at logic
and IQ I was also studying for CAT for
some reason uh but I got rejected I
think based on them scanning my social
media that particular company and I
decided not to sit for any other
placement because I didn't want a job
that was available in engineering
College uh so I told my friends that I
look for stuff outside I'm sure there
are opportunities in finance I'm sure
there's opportunities in media and
startups whatever uh and I had a huge
amount of people unanimously telling me
you're making a mistake and I'm sure
that other kids in third fourth year go
through this where they just trying to
think in an alternative way that okay
I'll try to do something else and and
the rest of the class will [__] all over
them you no no you're messing up your
career they'll put doubts in your head
even if you are that optimistic risk
taker which I feel is wrong which I hope
that anyone who's listening to this
podcast just understands that if you're
thinking alternatively about your life
that actually might be the right way to
go so don't let those voices like kill
off your own inner voice but absolutely
go on no no absolutely so one of the
things that I I learned when I went to
Facebook the first thing that I learned
was that um they like Facebook actually
has a sixe boot camp and post that you
get to choose the team that you will
work with M and their philosophy is look
I mean people perform the best when they
are really passionate about what they're
doing passion comes first everything
comes later
on um I think because engineering is
more or less forced onto people without
them actually realizing why they're
making the decision they are there are a
lot of people who probably might not be
interested in
engineering for multiples of reasons
right one is they're not taught the
right way it is is never made made to be
a fun process it's just like something
you have to mug up because you have to
clear the exams um and then that just
takes the fun out of things um so
because people have don't love love
engineering I mean a lot of times it is
it is actually a very bad decision to to
stay in injuring once you've gone
through all of that either you
ReDiscover and then develop your love
for engineering and hence you stay in
engineering and that's why you you are
building a career there or you explore
something else there's so much outside
and you very right like there's a lot of
misinformation on the ground the the
kind of misinformation just keeps
changing for example I don't know like
whether it was at the time when you
graduated or not but these days the
newest fad is that look uh machine
learning AI data science all of these
are cool things to do and let's just go
and learn it and what a lot of people
miss out on is like there's a lot of
Basics building before you do an ai ai
is advanced form of computer science you
have to learn computer sence science
really well before you go and do AI um
you you can't go and participate in a
100 m race before you start to learn how
to walk and run right like you have to
first learn that and then you start
running in 100 met race uh a lot of
people directly offer the 100 meter race
nowadays um which is also really
unfortunate I'm asking you this as an
engineering student like imagine that
you and me in the same class and our
exam is going to start in 15 minutes
right and I haven't understood a concept
so you tell me that concept really fast
right now can you break it down in terms
of what you mean by learning computer
science first and then transitioning to
AI what I assume is you need to have
experience with coding to be able to
understand how that world works right
and then you have these additional sort
of supplemental subjects which are where
nnfl and Ai and all that comes in am I
correct in saying this yeah more or less
okay but in general like think of it
like this um programming or coding is
nothing nothing but just telling a
machine what to do machines are actually
really really dumb at the core you have
to explain to them every single step
just like for example when you're
cooking food you have a recipe and
recipe says put this amount of sugar
this amount of salt I don't know what
I'm
making but but I mean there is a there
is a defined step bystep guide to do
things you can't deviate away from there
there's no way to misinterpret it very
similarly coding is just a way of coding
what you want the machine to do M and
that that requires you to First
understand what can a machine do how
does a machine work internally and then
how do you codify this and then how do
you write a code who handles what how
does this code get executed how does the
machine show me this fancy output that
I'm seeing in front of me once you start
to realize that then when I tell you
look by the way um I can make the
machine more intelligent by maybe taking
care of these these these cases then AI
starts to make sense to me okay I
already know how machines work now
there's this small modification I can do
and hence Ai and hence things work the
the way they do but if I directly jump
to just here is a piece of code apply
this and this image will get blurred out
that is not AI because then then all I'm
doing is that there are a bunch of these
um pre-coded pre-coded libraries that
I'm I'm just calling and I can never
innovate on top of it that just makes me
so so very limited in the computer
science career I can never build a
career out with it because then that can
never be my passion that I know these
four pieces of code and I can just call
them so say someone actually wants to
take up AI in life okay and suppose AI
is going to be the mainstream thing in
the world 10 15 years from I'm sure that
it is in many ways already right um the
first step would be learning how to code
I'm assuming learning Java learning C++
things like that starting right from
there learning more languages right then
probably going to a but what other
skills are required other than learning
the basics of coding I think um again
like even the number of programming
languages don't matter okay uh any one
programming language is good enough so
one programming language learn coding
there uh understand operating systems
how they work um understand just in
general how distributed systems work so
what is distributed system essentially
um all of the systems that we see around
us they have massive traffic for example
YouTube YouTube has so much amount of of
traffic it cannot run on one machine
you'll have multiple machines taking all
the traffic right so now when I move
from one machine to multiple machines
what kind of changes need to be made Etc
that is distributed systems so
understand distributed systems um and
then once you've done some bit of that
then you start to venture out into AI
with the question of why um anything
that you're learning you have to first
understand the need for it for example
if I say look here is an image figure
out how many rabbits are there in the
image right so now now I start thinking
about I mean in this image how is this
image represented inside a computer is
it a matrix in that Matrix how can I go
about identifying rabbits what are the
patterns I should be looking for etc etc
and then like finally I create my models
so but like the first step is becoming
really really good with programming uh
operating systems distributed systems
problem solving in general look
before you go to AIA you actually have
to take a lot of real world problems
that you see around you and try to solve
it using
Code because once you do that then that
part of your muscle is
developed could you give a small example
like for yeah let me let me maybe take
an non-coding
example um so there's an interview by
vendra sag um where he talks about how
the entirety of the world perceives him
to be very very casual everybody
believes he's super Talent and hence
he's such a good batsman and he say like
the reality can't be any different I
mean he says like when I go to the field
and I start thinking of what shots to
play then I usually start to mess up so
hence I am a player who has to rely a
lot on my muscle memory so he said like
my training regime is where a single day
I will just practice one shot like 12
hours straight so imagine 12 hours
straight like almost 100 overs just
playing this one Cover Drive Cover Drive
Cover Drive and and that helps him
develop his his muscle memory and that
takes a lot of hard work um that that
muscle memory development bit is
required even for computer science
before you get into the advanced stuff
you have to play your cover drives a lot
of times you have to play your straight
drives a lot of time you'll have to pay
play your hook shots a lot of times so
there's a lot of practice lot of problem
solving required in computer science
before you jump to the fancier stuff all
of this gets
skipped without guidance
M and if you don't believe me like just
maybe go and look up the backgrounds of
every single machine learning or AI
engineer working at Facebook or Google
or doing anything uh groundbreaking
you'll see that all of them were
engineers in the past all of them uh
were sof even this guy that I was
talking about a suani he's actually from
a machine learning background now in
Instagram but he was a software engineer
to begin with a really good one and then
became a machine learning
expert so again I'm going to try
breaking down uh coding for someone
who's never encountered it from my
extremely amateur even pre- amateur
perspective sure so coding works based
on uh you know how you have words in the
English language so you have certain
commands in code which represent uh what
the that particular coding language is
capable of doing so say a programming on
Java there are certain words you type
into your computer to tell the computer
to do certain things right right the
second thing to understand is that the
way a computer reads the code You'
entered is that it'll start from the top
and start scanning everything that the
coder has written okay he wrote this
here therefore I will do this with the
electronics in my system okay next I
have to go to this line okay he's
telling me to jump to this part of the
code next so I will go there I will do
that oh now this part of the code tells
me to jump back up okay I will re read
this again uh and honestly that's how
much I know about coding and that is a
lot okay that is that is the essence of
coding yes okay now now can you explain
slightly deeper layers if you explaining
it to a four-year-old
5-year-old right so what you described
is the flow of code right essentially
there are these kind of commands imagine
if you had a robot in front of you there
are these commands that I can tell my
robot and there's a sequence in which
I'm telling the command and by the way
this sequence is not fixed you can also
jump to other portions of the sequence
right um now that
that is great but now when I give you a
problem statement for example let's say
let's say I tell you R like um we
building LinkedIn and Linkedin has shows
me this this person is my first degree
connection this person is my second
degree connection this person is my
third degree connection now let's
actually build out how to find what
degree of connection is a person um now
to do that what sequence of commands to
apply right given two users let's say me
and you I know who who who are people
connected to me you know who are people
connected to you right and then those
people know who are people connected to
them how do I figure out what is the
distance between us how many people are
in between are in between so let's say I
know sanjit behind the camera correct
there are two degrees of separation
between you and sanjit right because you
know me now I know sanjit and sanjit
knows niku is also in this room so there
there are three degrees of separation
between you and Nik that is correct now
what sequence of commands to write to be
able to figure that out that process is
called designing an algorithm so the
next step is like how do you take real
world problems around you and how do you
design the algorithm or the those
sequence of commands to tell the robot
to do which which solves your problem
and then there's another part of that
robot which will actually show it to the
average user someone say who's a graphic
designer who's using LinkedIn to find
someone else and they find that someone
else and realize oh this person is my
fourth degree connection actually what's
happened is that a coder has figured
this out for your profile versus their
profile and then figure out a way to
project it to you on screen absolutely
this is what coding is absolutely that
is what coding is and then obviously the
problems are infinite in terms of even
if you just break down Instagram uh
someone who wants to go on reals they
just press a button right and then they
scroll through uh their real feed what
they don't understand is that even for a
particular real to be shown to you
Instagram has probably understood how
your mind works over the 10 years that
you've used Instagram and understood
okay this person likes football and he
likes basketball but not as much as he
likes football therefore they'll show
you three football clips and maybe two
basketball clips one basketball CL
absolutely but but for that sequence of
three football clubs and two basketball
clubs there's been layers of code that
people like you people like your other
engineer friends have coded in
absolutely AB that is before you write a
code I'm assuming that the entire Tech
teams get together and plan this out
that let's make an addictive app called
Instagram reals mhm let's get people
addicted by this phenomena we we'll
understand what these people like and
then map out their minds and therefore
show them only the stuff that they enjoy
uh watching absolutely absolutely
correct and that is why it is very
interesting right because if you have a
super power to see things around you and
be able to solve that problem through
code then just just picking random
problem statements and then solving them
through code is just a very very good
feeling to have and it's a highly paid
skill it's a highly paid
I mean money is a byproduct it's really
good money but I mean it's just a super
power to have in today's world right
like let me get this right people when
they pay coders for their jobs they're
paying for two things one they're paying
for knowledge of code which is the that
the coders have done the ABCs they've
played all those cover drives that you
spoke about you know they've learned how
to play different kinds of shots they've
done their Basics and the second aspect
that they're getting paid for are all
these patterns that they've drawn that
okay this person likes football little
bit more than he likes basketball
therefore I will draw out an internal
pattern like this that is what they're
getting paid for right and I mean so
that is one kind of problem statement
but there are different kind of problem
statements right for example I'll take
one another example um and this is just
because I I know this person so there
used to be this person um in scalar uh
he was from from again a city in in in
Rajasthan so when covid happened one of
the problem statement that this person
saw around them was that all of the
grocery shops were being shut down
because um of lockdown etc etc and it
was getting really hard for people to
hence get their groceries and while the
gr grocery shop owners had the bandwidth
to go and deliver uh stuff I mean just
knowing in real time what stuff is
available versus what is not was not
there right and like while larger cities
have a dunzo or a swiggy or uh other
kind of apps to to order big basket lot
of smaller cities don't now you you can
either either sit back wait for a big
basket to come and launch in your city
or you can build it yourself so this
person in in two months build out for
their own locality a version of big
basket which would allow the shop owners
to fill what they have and um and like
would allow other people in the locality
to just order from the app I'm dead sure
coding also teaches you psychology in so
many ways absolutely so by the way this
a fun fact uh Mark Zuckerberg was also a
minor in Psychology that's why he has a
very very good product manager and you
know that's also one thing I've observed
after working with coders that they all
brilliant they all they all are uh a
little dark in terms of I think because
they have such a deep understanding of
the human mind the sense of humor is
dark the the kind of stuff they say in
sentences can become dark and I love
that uh because I see it happening with
my editors also because even editing is
is deeply psychology based I feel
there's a lot of parallels between
editing and code little I've understood
about code and editing um what I will
say is that um the the coders who break
out and become business owners or who
become product managers or you know who
kind of go that one step further they
keep strengthening their code because
that's their bread and butter but then
they take it upon themselves to say that
okay I'll add this skill also and that's
what becomes challenging for most human
beings because it's that whole Kobe
Bryant effect like the mama mentality
effect that okay you're already good
you'll earn great money um is this what
you want and if you want this it's
perfectly fine or do you have some kind
of childhood trauma that forces you to
keep leveling up in life and then take
on a new skill set take on um a new way
of thinking can you also learn a little
bit of design thinking can you learn
Photoshop can you learn how to edit
videos can you learn how to package a
certain thing like this guy who started
the big basket for small town India I'm
sure that he had to also learn a little
bit of supply chain AB have to also
learn a little bit of design you have to
probably learn social media a little bit
to Market his stuff so um
I I just wanted to highlight that that
uh coding is definitely a great base
skill set right it'll teach you
psychology and then it's a matter of do
you want to take it even more uh Beyond
absolutely absolutely coding is a tool
coding as I said like it's a super power
and it's a really good superpow to have
in today's world you can just look at
problems around you and solve it using
coding right that's a it's a tool you
know what you mentioned about Tesla
becoming the biggest uh car company and
kind of taking over industry
uh I have a friend of mine who I grew up
with he's also in Silicon Valley now he
told me that that's going to be the next
uh big sort of billion dollar Revolution
I don't even want to call it billion
multi-billion dollar Revolution where
all the businesses you see around you
right now all of it is going to have a
tech element for example I don't know
you give me an example one what you just
mentioned is one of those examples like
groceries now aies are done by Tech I I
remember like when I moved to London for
the first time um so London has just
like we have metros they have what they
call as tubes um and you would go on the
counters to go and buy ticket there
would be this counter person there would
be three four counters and you go and
buy tickets from there in the matter of
uh 6 months I saw all of those counters
being replaced by vending machines that
had softwares running on them and they
would figure out like what places are
you supposed to go to and then like they
would issue
tickets not to mean that software is
going to take away your job but software
is going to make things move more
efficient uh software is going to come
up in every single aspect every single
field uh there's another example that I
had so there was this person who was
working in this oil company and they
were responsible for reviewing the oil
pipelines just just QA on oil pipelines
just to make sure there is no leak
anywhere just make sure that the oil is
Flowing the right way etc etc because
all of those leaks could could be very
very expensive so their entire day job
was to monitor the QA of this oil
pipeline
now that is also something that software
has solved today you can look at the
images and just what you would expect a
human to do with those images you can
expect a machine to do as well detect
anomalies and then like flag those
anomalies which then a human can review
so now a single human can be reviewing
multiple oil pipelines instead of just
focusing on on a set of those so every
single field right oil has nothing to do
with software but still like software is
adding immense amount of value every
single field that we see around us today
will have some element of software in
the space so it's just all and like all
of the governments are realizing that
too um I remember two years back I was
in Singapore just for for some some
meetings and that day the the biggest
headline on the newspaper was that
Singapore government has made coding
education mandatory class sixth onwards
because they realized like this is a
basic skill to have now and I'm also
sure it opens up certain parts of your
mind yeah yeah it does it does it's it's
just like mathematics right like you
you're taking a problem statement you're
trying to come up to a logical solution
and then you translating it to very
defined set of commands yeah which get
the work done yeah um you know I want to
bring up something you said uh that how
they've introduced it in sixth grade in
Singapore uh mathematics is one of those
subjects where up till maybe the eighth
grade I thought I was [__] at Okay the
reason was that I was one of those last
minute studying kind of kids uh so I'd
leave every subject for the end and I
actually do fairly well in the other
subjects but math I would be like near
the bottom of the class and I that's
what made me assume I was terrible at
mathematics okay come 9th grade I
figured that so I was in a deeply
competitive school okay in my 10th grade
I got
93% and I was the 15th person in my
class so I was from one of those schools
and I was actually depressed about
getting 93 that's a whole other story
but uh that's the mindset I came from so
to pull up my aggregate I had to get
better better at mathem and my mom found
us one mathematics tution teacher whose
teaching was good it was pretty normal
basic she taught me kind of trigonometry
how you're supposed to be taught but
what she really did and this is what had
built her reputation over the years was
that she gave you intense quantity in
terms of homework and she would [__]
your ass if like you didn't do the
homework so it forced you into doing
things doing so many math problems and
Sunday I was at the top of the class in
mathematics and that's what made me
realize that oh oh after school those
Judo classes I go for where you're doing
push-ups to get stronger how you become
stronger in Judo mathematics works like
that it's not like the other subjects
where you can rataro at the last minute
you can grip geography very fast you can
grip uh English very fast but you can't
grip mathematics like that is built over
time and I'm assuming that coding is the
same because coding probably works the
same parts of your brain in terms of
logic patter information Etc
exactly and and getting that deep into
mathematics benefited for the rest of my
life because once you get deep into
mathematics your visualization power
also becomes extremely strong exact like
trigonometry has a lot of applications I
would even say in camera work like it
made me able to learn camera work way
more easily as a YouTuber uh so I think
people need to shift the perception of
coding from oh it's just a nerdy subject
that Engineers know to oh it's sort of a
life skill that's going to open up my
mind right uh and I and I see that shift
happening man um also when we keep
reading about AI Ste jobs which is very
likely going to happen I feel the
there'll be new jobs that will be formed
and the new jobs will be in the world of
software right right uh keeping that in
mind there's two questions for you one
what do you think 2031 is going to look
like in terms of human life like what's
going to happen because you're at the
Forefront of tech and Tech is what
changes the world uh the second question
is what is Scala doing to kind of prep
for that because I'm dead sure even as a
coach at scaler you're thinking about
2031 2041 so
uh what's the future looking like Mr a
right so uh uh I
mean there's so many speculations on
what the future might look like but what
is very clear and this has been
reflected out in so many reports now is
that as you said um the nature of jobs
will change M the total number of jobs
might still remain the same but the
nature of jobs will change they'll
become more Tech oriented than they were
before um a lot of menial or repetitive
jobs like driving or like being a
security guard somewhere or um you know
being a part of a manufacturing unit
where you're putting uh Lids on top of
jam jars things like that are going to
be replaced yeah they are going to be
replaced but they'll be replaced with a
different kind of a job so um what we
see is that hence I I said like a lot of
governments are doing that as well they
they're realizing the need and hence
they're making coding or Tech as a basic
life skill skill to have is is just the
way the the future world is going to
evolve M um now if that is going to
happen to be honest it's then one of the
good things with tech is it does not
matter where you are imagine if even if
I have to solve a problem sitting here
that resides in the US I can still write
quote from here however if I was to
let's say go and physically do it for
example if I'm I was physically putting
Lids on the top of bottles I can't can't
do it sitting in India I have to be in
the US doing that but if I was just
coding stuff for a machine to do that I
can do that for sitting here in the US
as well so then the question becomes
which is the country that has the
largest youth Capital notice that I'm
using the world Capital because the
number of people that you have it's a
it's a large Capital to have it's a
Advantage it's an advantage to have and
India Today is the youth capital capital
of the world uh so so it is very
important that while this transition is
happening while things are moving
towards Tech we have the resources now
those resources become skilled to lead
that Revolution to happen otherwise we
would we just have this golden
opportunity that we would end up missing
out on so it is important that we don't
lack behind as a
nation now the problem is there are two
ways to solve it look I mean education
is typically about two things right one
is you have books or content two is
being able to consume those books or
content in a in a setup where you have
support you have experts teaching you
you have live interaction with them in
certain ways you have live interaction
with your peers in certain ways which is
what today universities do the problem
is it
is Impractical and impossible for me to
say that I'll go and and construct a
million universities in the next two
years not going to happen um with the
kind of Youth Capital we have we need
those many
universities so if I can't do that then
what's the next best thing right and and
there I see that Tech is by the way also
the solution to that problem um
essentially what is a university made of
in fact like when we started scalar our
our the first problem statement we were
solving was look if you have to build an
online Stanford what should an online
Stanford have we were not building
another book
we were building another
University and there um the the
realization was that look you need to
have a large social aspect to it which
is people talking to each other a lot
people graduate from colleges with best
of friends you should make that happen
here you should the second thing that
should happen here is that people who
are teaching you in a classroom um again
I'm going to get a lot of flack for this
but they should not be professors
Medical Science changes very frequently
and so does computer science and in
medical science people teaching are
doctors who practice stuff on a daily
basis on the ground and then they teach
why is computer science a place where
professors are teaching who have not
written code themselves for the last 14
15 years um so that's a second basic
fundamental change you have to have
people deep in business teaching you um
three is you need like the Persona of a
senior in college with you right so you
need the the seniors in college to help
out help you out whenever you're stuck
you said like the Hands-On element which
is very very important which is you have
to be writing a lot of code you have to
just like your your teacher made you do
a lot of homework there have to be these
places that make you write a lot of code
almost on a daily basis and then there
are people to support you whenever you
get stuck you're not just there swimming
alone in the swimming pool but there are
people who there to to help support you
when you start drowning um and then all
of this done in close collaboration with
with employers make sure that things are
moving in the right direction so we're
trying to build this we're trying to
build this virtual University of sorts
um which can take a lot of people in
it's not restricted to take maybe 100
people or a thousand people it can take
100,000 people if if required or a
million people if required but it makes
sure there is very high quality of
delivery of
University being done to them everybody
has access to the best quality of
Education how do you filter out people
so uh I mean right now we filter out
people on three four things not on their
coding knowledge but rather their
aptitude skills their that we require
that people know some bit of mathematics
so on their mathematical skills um and
some bit of intent intent on struggling
through this um as I said like the SAG
example where he would play cover drives
all of the day that requires a lot of
hard work and anybody who comes with an
expectation look I mean I'm going I I
have this shortcut I'll become a
millionaire tomorrow not going to happen
it takes a lot of hard work for you to
become good at anything yeah right so so
that's another filter that we put I
think you know while we've highlighted
money so much in this particular episode
one thing I'd also like to highlight
about money is that the money in your
bank account is not very often it's
always a reflection of what you have put
out in the world right it's just how
money works and this has been a learning
about money in the last 2 three years
for me that it is just a reflection of
the value you've put out in the work
third absolutely Third Law of Newton
Newton's third law uh every action has
an equal and opposite reaction the money
is a reaction to the actions you've put
out and while most kids today want fat
pay packages want to be at a certain
financial position in life what they
fail to understand is again I don't
blame them for this because you've just
spent 21 years on this Earth but you
need to give yourself five six years you
know to really see what those five six
years have been uh have done to your
career because the big opportunities to
earn that exorbitant increment is going
to come in your fifth year it's going to
come in your sixth year it's not going
to happen in the first four years
correct but uh kids these days need to
understand patience I can't believe I'm
saying kids these days I'm 28 dude like
it was 6 years ago that I graduated but
literally my life was different before
the lockdown financially these last 2
years have been great financially and
it's been an outcome of having grinded
for like four five years of my life and
and not having seen tough like Financial
situations in those four five years so
that's the other kind of anecdote I want
to attach to oh yes you can become a
multi-millionaire through coding uh it's
probably an extension to what you said
but uh I'm sure you you felt the same
way also you know that whole uh who said
that thing I I think it was Johnny Depp
no it was Jim Carri Jim Carry said this
okay he said that I hope everyone
becomes as rich as they want and as
famous as they want to understand that
money and fame aren't everything right
you realize that eventually which I'm
dead sure you realized sitting in the US
I'm sure you were earning a lot of money
in dollars being a coder at Facebook
something would have happened in you
where you're like no I want to go back
to my roots I want to go back to India
because you realize life and the
experience of life isn't that number in
your bank account it is those moment you
spend with your wife it's those moments
you spend with your family uh it's it's
those moments where you're eating great
Indian food
but um what had happened to you in the
US man like why did you why did you even
decide to come back because I remember
to give you context in my engineering
College I remember so many people
[__] all over India and I kind of
get pissed off you know the Patriotic
kid inside me be like yo why you why you
shooting all over India dude there's a
lot of opportunity here and we're a
happier country have been to the US and
I'd argue that you know the happiness
levels here are greater than the
happiness levels there yeah I'd not just
argue I'd probably vouch for that man
but what happened to you there uh I mean
so as you said like look life in US is
good um but like there's an incident
that happened with me when I was in
school there was um there was this
interaction I had with with a fellow
classmate where they they asked me three
very simple questions uh they asked me
like do you know the name of your father
and mother I said yes obviously um then
they asked me do you know the name of
your grandfather I did so I told them
then they asked me do you know the name
of your great-grandfather and then I
realized that I don't know the name of
my great-grandfather even though that
person is related to me um and and what
I I mean what the point that they were
trying to drive is that look um when you
die uh all that's left behind is the
Legacy that you leave behind people know
you for the work you do people know you
for the Legacy you leave behind if you
don't do something substantial then
people will you will fizzle out people
will forget about you so one of the
things that was clear to me even then
was um what do I want to be leaving
behind um if at all I have to go out and
like those kind of thoughts don't come
when you're graduating from college
because then you are struggling for
financial stability but once you have
that then the next stage is what is your
legacy what is it that you're going to
do which is going to make you be
remembered forever and and I I was very
clear that look um the kind of work the
kind of challenges everything everything
is great at Facebook but uh some of the
core problems that I identify with some
of the core problems that I see I don't
get to solve that being at Facebook I
have two younger brothers who are also
Engineers they are facing a very
different kind of problem statement that
is back in my country if I really have
to make a difference I I should take
that chance and I I should uh give it a
shot and that's why I I made the move
back to India to to be able to solve a
problem statement that I relate to the
core m and I believe maybe I could be a
person who can solve it um so yeah Anan
Singh I actually have so many more
questions for you man but I feel this is
a good introduction uh to who you are to
what you've done to scaler for the
audience I'd urge everyone especially
engineering students watching this
spread this as far as you can at least
in engineering College uh I'm assuming
that a big bunch of scaler uh entrance
are actually engineering grads uh again
this is is open to everyone but India
changes through people like this and
through conversations like this so again
if you actually want to do something for
your country uh it begins with your own
skill set so just remember that that's
what I'll say uh Anan Singh do you want
to add anything to the end of this
particular chat because I'm sure you're
going to be back on TRS but for this one
yeah nothing more than just saying that
look everything starts by daring to
dream um so the all of the money element
was to get get you to dream dare to
dream once you dare to dream then you'll
figure out a path be patient work hard
you will'll figure out a path thank you
brother I really appreciate you opening
up like this I really appreciate the
ABCs of code that you taught me and I
will see you back on the Run show very
soon all right thank you thank you for
having me thank you so this conversation
just felt like talking to a fellow
engineering student and that's the big
gift of engineering College it teaches
you to kind of grip any subject as
easily as is possible but hey even if
you've not gone to engineering College
trust me this jugar mentality this
learning capability can be learned off
of listening to other Learners other
jugaru are the engineers that's one of
the goals we have with this podcast
that's why we have so many Engineers on
the show because the real learnings of
engineering College don't happen in
textbooks or on PCS or in Labs it
happens when you're conversing with
jarus when you're conversing with other
engineering students that's the energy
we try bringing you on the runway show
all the time remember to follow TRS on
Spotify every episode's available on
Spotify 48 hours before it's available
anywhere else in the world anaman Singh
is going to be back on the RV Show very
soon but for now especially if you're an
engineering student spread the word
about this particular episode in your
WhatsApp groups online in your college
groups or wherever else you'll
communicate with your buddies let's
spread that engineering out Outlook out
there in the world India is going to
grow through software
[Music]